---
layout: post
title: "Does culture matter ?"
date: 2024-06-02
---

It feels like our ancestors had a common awareness of the importance of freedom and lived everyday to work towards it.
Currently, we live in an age of abundance, it is hard to feel anything other than primal needs, and these have become larger economic activities as we see in the present day world.

It feels like to to feel anything real, to really live a day, where we are willing to work, being aware of the current world is essential. Unless, you know what is needed, you will not try hard enough to collect the truth and work in its framework.
But, looks like, the inability to put effort into any of this, prompts us to live with lies, and we keep saying the same lie to ourselves, until it becomes the truth for you.

Also, it should be default in a culture that it suggests you to work, in fact, work hard to any extent.
Hard work doesnot mean the rote work, but work that uncovers new knowledge to you.
A person who has taken shortcuts all through life, has nothing uncovered by himself, except the instructions for taking those shortcuts. And this person cannot propagate any new information to his kids, on how to deal with life.

I strongly believe that the will to work hard should be default in any culture. 
Earlier the will to work used to stem from survival instinct,when humans were in hunting mode. 
Then, as humans started to practice agriculture, the will to work hard comes from the goal to survive for longer time spans.

Today, most of our needs are being met and we are slowly losing the will to work hard.
The reason to work hard even till 40's, 50's is not to become rich, but rather to avoid falling into depression and losing sense of self-worth. If you still have the will to work and can figure out things to do, you will still have the capacity to reward yourself from increasing your self worth by doing some work. It is most crucial in the current generation, where there is too much redundant information out there, but we do not posses proper framework to make use of that information. The only default framework every human has is to compare oneself relatively to others and act on it. But, this framework is not at all useful, as it mostly puts you into traps, if the reference is wrong. And when there is too much information, there are high chances of choosing wrong references. At the same time, if you have this culture, where people lost the will to work, to ask relevant question and your will to work only comes by comparing yourself to others, you are most prone to depression, as you have not built any mental resilience by learning about the real world.

That is the reason, hardship is a feature not a bug. Ofcourse unless you are absorbing knowledge from every hardship, it is waste.
It introduces you to many things in life.
More than anything, it introduces you to your self, you understand your limitations better.

